Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, this is the second piece of Nicole rival. She's going to be in here in a second.
Gwenevere Abriel: It started off as group at 11 it's now becoming individual therapy.
Gwenevere Abriel: She should be seeing me twice a weekend.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh,
Jackie's there. And it's interesting.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's a possibility. We might still have group if Jackie's saying she's here.
Dawn Abriel: Literally, do you remember what the agreement was for how much you're going to decrease each week.
Nicole Roybal: Yeah, you said
Nicole Roybal: Wait.
Nicole Roybal: I thought you had said that to wait a week and then go down to three times a day and and that
Nicole Roybal: Was I thought it
Nicole Roybal: I thought they said
Nicole Roybal: They'll take the know
Dawn Abriel: You're taking a massive amount I gave you all of that medicine to get off the alcohol.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah, so you don't need all that medicine.
Nicole Roybal: Not off alcohol. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: But, but because you took so much. You do have to taper and if you taper 100 milligrams less every week or two weeks, then you will get down off of it. But you keep taking it. Your body's going to get even more dependent on it. So I wanted to check in with you and make sure that's clear.
Nicole Roybal: Okay, okay, I understand 300 milligrams a week not 600 right
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, hold on, hold on, how slow
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's get what we're at and recommended tight ration and the frequency because you guys are. That's a big difference 300 to 600 different Yo let's start over, Nicole.
Dawn Abriel: Total the total amount that you're taking per day.
Nicole Roybal: 1800 okay
Dawn Abriel: You should decrease that by 100 each week.
Dawn Abriel: So this
Dawn Abriel: Shows 17
Dawn Abriel: I know, I know, I know, I know. No, I can fix that part.
Nicole Roybal: But
But
Dawn Abriel: We obviously I've done a shitty job of communicating this to you. So I really wanted to be clear. If you, you just need to start decreasing and I'll make sure you have the 100 milligram capsules, but they do have to be
Dawn Abriel: It has to be 100 milligrams per week that you take it down. And if you went from
Dawn Abriel: You know that those big doses, then of course you would be shaky, but you know you're if you're there now at 1800
Dawn Abriel: And you've been at this for how long now.
Nicole Roybal: I'm TWO WEEKS, TWO WEEKS. Oh, yeah.
Dawn Abriel: So why don't you stay this week at that and next week. Go to the 1700
Nicole Roybal: Okay, gotcha. Yeah. Cuz I went down 600 milligrams. And so I think that's all the way, my body's been freaked out right
Yeah, that's right.
Dawn Abriel: Exactly.
Nicole Roybal: Well, at least I got through it right
Gwenevere Abriel: Nicole.
Gwenevere Abriel: Get a blank piece of paper, write the date.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, um, I
Gwenevere Abriel: Want to do a group to group. What do you want to do to have the reduction because it'd be nice to have it even
Dawn Abriel: I guess, why don't you, why don't we do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Nicole right down February.
Gwenevere Abriel: 25 foot 1700 and this is the galaxy. And you've been talking about.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes. You wanted every week then 1600
Gwenevere Abriel: On March 3 1500
Gwenevere Abriel: On March 10 1400 march 17
Gwenevere Abriel: March 24
Gwenevere Abriel: Then march 31 I think it's 1200
Nicole Roybal: Yes.
Nicole Roybal: March 31st.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then the next date is April 7 I think it's 1100 I'm not writing it down. So I'm counting on you.
Gwenevere Abriel: 14
Gwenevere Abriel: I guess that's it 1000
Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: April 22 one 900
Gwenevere Abriel: April 28 800
Nicole Roybal: Okay, I gotcha. I'll get the rest. You don't have to do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: You get the idea. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: But what we can do is
Gwenevere Abriel: It'll always if you transcribe this, then it can go in
Gwenevere Abriel: The note inside the note and it can be a reminder for me to check in on you and say, Where you at, where you at, where you at this way I can help to
Nicole Roybal: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so
Dawn Abriel: How much, how much three. How many of the 300 words do you have left.
Nicole Roybal: You know,
Nicole Roybal: Well, I just bought them last time he prescribed me some and I have I have quite a bit. Okay. Taking him.
Nicole Roybal: So,
Nicole Roybal: I said I have taken only like six doses.
Nicole Roybal: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: That's all right.
Dawn Abriel: I just them. So you're you're on killed it gets down to a lower dose. I'm only going to order like 100 of the 100 milligram ones so that you can use the three hundreds
Dawn Abriel: You know, add add as many three hundreds AS YOU CAN I TELL YOU NEED THE 100
Yeah yeah
Nicole Roybal: That works.
Nicole Roybal: And I understand fully this time, I promise. Okay, well,
Dawn Abriel: No, I'm sure I didn't. It was my
Nicole Roybal: Know it's probably my fault too because I always
Nicole Roybal: I hear one thing and I hear it the way I want to hear it. So it's just knowing
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, well I just told Jackie that we just can't put it together because we've only got two. And so, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's just leave it like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so it sounds like we need more people in here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Nicole Roybal: Is there more people
Nicole Roybal: I guess.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, they're on a bi weekly or monthly schedule because they put together some some time so you know i mean
Gwenevere Abriel: I mean this, you wouldn't even be here.
Nicole Roybal: Right, yeah. I usually be on Tuesday. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's kind of starting to get a little, a little skimpy
Nicole Roybal: Where I originally started my group therapy was this one and I liked all the people I like Mia. I'm Katrina. Everyone always talk to me about certain things and and you guys listen to me. And I was like,
Nicole Roybal: Yeah, that's okay so
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, Doc. If you're done, you can head out and all kind of continue the course. I started here with her. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: By
Nicole Roybal: Me.
Nicole Roybal: So on the insurance because how I can't have two one on ones in one week then shirt it'll still show it as a group therapy for today.
Gwenevere Abriel: No. Um, I don't know when you say you can't have this, you're not supposed to have it on the same day.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not supposed to have individual therapy and group on the same day.
Nicole Roybal: Okay, maybe that's what it is. Maybe I'm excited.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can have it on the same week
Nicole Roybal: Okay, your Medicaid. Right. Yeah. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, cheese and then Katrina's trying to get in one
Of course,
Gwenevere Abriel: Too late. It's 33 minutes we're going to move on.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's get into it. Let's, let's get a little bit more information.
Gwenevere Abriel: I wanted to talk to you about ways to communicate because you were saying you get offended.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, because you're, you're, I can see you're trying to protect you know this sort of fledgling, you know, new self confidence. This new image and trying to take pride in what you're doing and
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, and so it would be nice. I understand that he could reinforce that.
Gwenevere Abriel: But if you could practice with him, saying instead I feel this is hard to do, but you do have a choice. You don't have to say, Screw you, I'm out of here. And then there's an argument, you can say how you feel. Why don't we spend a little bit of time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Kind of practicing that
Nicole Roybal: Instead of saying, I think.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, it's very different.
Guess what.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think is subject to interpretation. It's your opinion and he can not agree, but something else happens when you say I feel
Gwenevere Abriel: When you say, I think you're in storytelling mode when you use
Gwenevere Abriel: So I haven't, I haven't done this. I haven't shown you the worksheet on this.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm gonna do right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's just, it's so helpful to have this under your belt with your family, with friends, people that work, especially with people that you're romantically involved with this is a standard
Nicole Roybal: Awful way to communicate. I'm trying to get the doctor like I've been told this before about I fell, but I don't remember.
Gwenevere Abriel: Probably. I mean, this is a pretty pretty important one.
Yeah.
Why
Not going there where
Gwenevere Abriel: share my screen with ok so the nice thing about this is that it mitigates which means reduces the potential for blame when we say, I think, blah, blah, blah. It tends to make the other person feel defensive
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, I don't want to not, I want to make sure I gotta send a message a virtual clinic really quick. Okay, let me just say group was cancelled. Please let's
Hi.
Jackie.
Gwenevere Abriel: Katrina needs to know.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So looking at this I statements, what we do is we're taking responsibility for our feelings.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, and it will help you improve your communication when you're feeling upset.
Gwenevere Abriel: One way to achieve this is by using the I statement this technique will allow you to communicate what's upsetting while minimizing blaming
Gwenevere Abriel: If our statements feel to blaming the person we're trying to speak to will often become defensive and then you're off into an argument. So here's the deal. Is it
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it up for debate. If I say to you, Nicole. I feel jealous.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is there a debate of whether I feel jealous. Is it possible that I don't
Gwenevere Abriel: Know it's absolutely true.
Gwenevere Abriel: So wow beautiful about an emotion word
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that it's not up for debate.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's real. It's what actually happened. I feel offended I feel insulted. I feel hurt. I feel angry, I feel sad, I feel scared. I feel disgusted. I feel surprised.
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel happy. I feel excited that is not up for the date the rest of the way we talk. Most of us, it creates this argument because it's a well that's not true.
Nicole Roybal: And then we're on
Gwenevere Abriel: And we're in a debate of convincing one another, my reality is real. It's more real than yours. And off we go.
Nicole Roybal: What did you say you're making me jealous.
Nicole Roybal: Nope. Same thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'll get into that with you. And that's, I'm glad you wrong.
Nicole Roybal: If you say, I feel you're making me jealous.
Gwenevere Abriel: That won't work either. Yeah.
Nicole Roybal: I'm still confused.
Gwenevere Abriel: Again,
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to get it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. On your piece of paper right I feel and a blank space, it's only three words.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you decide to replace that third word with the word and you can put a big know for the word li ke can't say like
Nicole Roybal: Oh my god, it's like my main thing. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: That you're going to
Gwenevere Abriel: Say goodbye to it, put it on a ship and send it to Peru.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, and you can't say that.
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel that you're making me jealous know
Nicole Roybal: The two words I use a lot
Nicole Roybal: It's gonna
Gwenevere Abriel: But here's the neat thing when when your communication gets cleaner.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to be understood faster.
Nicole Roybal: You're going to
Gwenevere Abriel: feel less insulted less alone less loved. You're going to feel when you actually speak.
Gwenevere Abriel: on an emotional level.
Gwenevere Abriel: It'll go really fast, the person will hear, Oh, you're feeling jealous.
Gwenevere Abriel: I care about you. I care about this person I know I wouldn't want to feel jealous.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then the natural course might be what's going on, what's. Why would you feel tell us what's happening. But let's not go off there. Come back, come back, come back, let's
Gwenevere Abriel: Come back, let's first get the structure, then we'll come out of it. Okay, so the key piece, the key function here is I feel you. You got to only put in an emotion word, the only word that can go there is an emotion word
Gwenevere Abriel: Most people don't talk like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, we're going to do, we'll do it together. First let's play with the little exercise, they have here. So take a look at this example.
Gwenevere Abriel: Typically we talk like this we say here, you're right in here. You make me angry. That's how you talk, huh, you may be angry because you're always late.
Nicole Roybal: Right.
Nicole Roybal: Let's say
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Fallacy with this Nicole is it's not actually true.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, step back from this
Gwenevere Abriel: You take my will use me because I'm here, I'm the only other person so will take me
Gwenevere Abriel: This, in my life all making it up. So don't get too caught up in the story. And my husband is a never home for dinner. He's never on time and I don't get angry.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm grateful makes a good living and
Gwenevere Abriel: I really appreciate the the way his career is he's got to stay late and he's working with people that just you can't walk away from them. So I get it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So did you hear in that that it's the same event of someone being late. But it's subject to interpretation. He doesn't make me angry or not angry.
Gwenevere Abriel: But the truth is way up here. Look at this one. Remember what you wrote down. I feel angry now. That's true for you. Not for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe I might say, I feel lonely.
Gwenevere Abriel: For you. The key is to really get maybe for the first time, no one makes you do anything. I don't make you do anything.
Gwenevere Abriel: You have a filter with which you view the world with which you interpret people's actions with which you perceive threat danger. We all have a filter.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, it is your filter.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so here's what how we play with that.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't even want to get into that too far off, because then you'll miss learning just this part will go over to interpretation in a little bit. Let's get all the way through these examples, and then we'll circle back. So here we go.
Gwenevere Abriel: You totally like you make me angry when you're always late.
Nicole Roybal: I know I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: A girl and me so
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm changing ownership and I'm owning I'm not projecting I'm instead I'm owning my own feelings and I say, there it is. I feel frustrated when you come home late because, well I stay up late worrying.
Gwenevere Abriel: For
Nicole Roybal: One better than the first.
Gwenevere Abriel: Does and it's because it's it's not blaming this other person. It's just explaining your experience. It's not blaming it's explaining your experience, I feel frustrated
Gwenevere Abriel: When you come home late you just stay right there. You don't have to go into the because
Gwenevere Abriel: Because when you go into because my gosh, it just gives more details and then the arguments about the because
Gwenevere Abriel: The cleanest way is just, I feel frustrated when you come home late on on Thursdays, because that's the day like I actually, you know, right, you got your reason in your head. But if you don't explain it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then you don't run the risk of an argument going on and on. So it's just I feel frustrated when you come home late and then you should then you shush, shush exhibit
Nicole Roybal: Exhibit problem too. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then you zip it and then this person, Daniel.
Gwenevere Abriel: Has a decision.
Gwenevere Abriel: He's looking at you. You just own drone feeling. You didn't say it's if I'm down. He didn't say it's my fault that you're frustrated just said you feel frustrated when I come home late and I get to do something, I get to care about you.
Gwenevere Abriel: I get to care about your frustration or not. I have that right
Nicole Roybal: Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: This gets to show up, but it's not filled with a bunch of storytelling, on and on and on. Justification on and on.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, let's do another one.
Gwenevere Abriel: You never call you don't even care.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's the typical way we talk we we say how we see the world. And then we plug in an interpretation of it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we accuse someone. Hey, you don't even care about me based on the fact that she never call like this person doesn't even say anything we've already analyzed and said you don't get
Nicole Roybal: And it's like time them how they feel. So, of course, then they're gonna get defensive. Don't tell me how
Gwenevere Abriel: To hate it. No, and you don't like it, too, right, because what is this person is Daniel is saying.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your blog about that's a boundary crossing. We don't like it when someone crosses the fence and comes over to our sciences. Well, this is what you're thinking. This is how you're feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, we would prefer if people kind of just own their own stuff. It'd be convenient. So that's what we're gonna do. We're gonna leave this parade of honesty and we're going to start
Gwenevere Abriel: So here we go, instead of you never call you don't care. We're gonna say I feel hurt when you forget to call and for you. I won't even get into the because
Nicole Roybal: Yeah, for me, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Cuz that's next level is you need to be ready for what's coming your way barely have a handle on this.
Nicole Roybal: So when
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel hurt when you don't text me when I text you back. Period. Period. You go, I feel, here's my emotional experience of an event. Those are the only things you're sharing
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, now you're going to get quiz here you're going to do one ready
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to say it to me because it works better. I'm going to be the friend in the scenario for all of them. Okay, so you're directly talking to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: So your friend keeps canceling plans at the last minute and you've known me for 1520 years. Okay, so you have been dealing with me for a long time being flaky.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Nicole Roybal: With me. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're the flake in this
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Last weekend last weekend you were waiting for me right at the restaurant. When I call to tell you, Oh, I'm not gonna be able to make it. And you felt
Gwenevere Abriel: Hurt, but maybe in this you might feel something else. So it's up to you. But now using the I feel
When she got
Gwenevere Abriel: Some nosing around out there.
Nicole Roybal: Um, yeah, the mailman comes going up to his car isn't there by his body was, I was like, who the hell is getting in the mailbox. Sorry. Okay. I FEEL COZY canceling any
Nicole Roybal: Heard
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to
Hell.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right here, I feel you're only going to do three words. What do you say to me.
Nicole Roybal: Ah, OK. Sorry, I'm thinking of the way I would react normally
Nicole Roybal: You're gonna
Gwenevere Abriel: Do it differently because you don't want the same result. You can do the same thing, but you're going to get the same result.
Nicole Roybal: I feel that
No.
Nicole Roybal: As I say, that are like every single time after feel okay
And
Gwenevere Abriel: Give me an emotion word
Gwenevere Abriel: you've known me
Gwenevere Abriel: For 15 years right
And I keep doing it.
Nicole Roybal: It's hard. It's really hard not to say those words I feel
Nicole Roybal: Upset
Nicole Roybal: When you don't show up because it seems like how
Nicole Roybal: I can't not you like or that
Gwenevere Abriel: You said I feel upset now upset is a word that's it's not precise upset can mean Mad, sad, it can mean different things. So it's a risky. It's risky.
Nicole Roybal: But it's a little bit of both. Because even taking me forever.
Gwenevere Abriel: So then you say,
Nicole Roybal: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Bad and bad. You can do both.
Nicole Roybal: Okay, I feel sad when
Nicole Roybal: I feel I get mad when you don't show up and you keep flexing.
Nicole Roybal: And also makes me sad because I don't get to see you. I miss you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay not bad. You did sneak in a light for the map. He
Gwenevere Abriel: Did I but but you move so fast I could check and you
Nicole Roybal: Know, just get it out before I forgot the end of it.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's a, it's an arrow. It's a causal relationship for you. It's
Nicole Roybal: I feel
Gwenevere Abriel: angry when you don't keep your commitment.
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel angry because I got a babysitter. I got my hair done nails done bought a new outfit took a bus that took me 45 minutes to get here.
Gwenevere Abriel: I didn't go out with Sarah I'm in order to keep this commandment. You see it.
Gwenevere Abriel: That is, that's your experience, it's not the only truth because you don't know what I'm feeling
Nicole Roybal: Exactly. Okay. But
Gwenevere Abriel: They both exist at the same time.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we'll find out. We'll find out the other side. But at this point, you're just trying to on your part, without saying you make me
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, I don't make you do nothing. MAYBE, MAYBE YOU'RE THE ONE reinforcing that she'd been doing it for 15 years but maybe makes me think you really care. Okay, so very complicated. But you get to say I feel angry and I feel sad because they don't get to see much
Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now that makes perfect sense. We're going to do another one. You're doing great.
Gwenevere Abriel: Another one out. Show your this is a tough one because when you're working with a group, especially at work, this kind of thing comes up and we got to use the same skill at work, too. So you're working on a project with a group and one member is so lack of lack and
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is not completing and it'll be me. I'm a slacker my
Gwenevere Abriel: Not completing the tasks on time. I'm really comfortable because you are doing it for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because it's a great
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to do it because like you have a better accountability and
Gwenevere Abriel: Whatever, maybe I'm insecure and I'm not confident, but you're
Nicole Roybal: Confident you
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't do it. And I'm just going to say nothing.
Gwenevere Abriel: You have repeatedly had to finish my work which has been frustrating for you. So what do you say to me, take your time go nice and slow.
Gwenevere Abriel: Third word will be an emotion.
Nicole Roybal: Yes, yes.
Nicole Roybal: I feel
Nicole Roybal: What I want to say is, I feel like you're taking advantage of me, but I can't say that I feel
Nicole Roybal: Angry
Nicole Roybal: Angry so I don't want to push them over. I feel I know whatever I feel angry when you don't do your part of the work, because then it reflects back on us and makes us look bad.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well then you zip it and use
Gwenevere Abriel: It.
Nicole Roybal: Though, like I said something better.
Gwenevere Abriel: Fantastic but but noticing yourself how hard it was for you to own your anger as if that's a forbidden one for a lot of families are not supposed to. That's the one that. Instead, what you do is you describe the experience of anger and you don't end up saying
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm angry because I keep having to do your work and it's it's pulling from how good a job. I could be doing at my part, because I'm spreading out all of this time to everybody's
Gwenevere Abriel: And I could be doing a much better job for the part that I'm getting graded on and I'm I'm I'm I'm angry. Right. Yeah. Oh, you did great. Okay, let's do another one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, we don't really have blockbuster anymore, so it's
Nicole Roybal: Probably not.
Gwenevere Abriel: Me, but, um, you know, maybe a
Nicole Roybal: Pretty good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, like, you know, some really cool.
Nicole Roybal: Makeup. But I was a weird one.
Gwenevere Abriel: We're gonna make us good so I'm the friends that borrows stuff and I bring it back to you. Damaged usually
Nicole Roybal: I'm okay clothes I put that into okay
Nicole Roybal: Okay, so you can
Gwenevere Abriel: I keep borrowing stuff and I bring it back missing a button. There's a little stain on it. Um, that's a good one because it's pretty common for people. Mm hmm. And of course, I'm back again and I want to borrow that pink sweater again.
Nicole Roybal: And maybe one
Gwenevere Abriel: And you like it and you are worried. What do you say to me.
Nicole Roybal: What I would say, Oh no, I'm probably gonna work this weekend so now
Nicole Roybal: I feel
Nicole Roybal: I feel angry when you bought. I don't want to say, angry, angry. Okay, whatever. I feel angry when you borrow my clothes because
Nicole Roybal: I noticed that sometimes you damage them and I don't want you to damage my favorite pink sweater.
Nicole Roybal: Either way, no matter what the situation is gonna go wrong.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Now that you've done it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Notice about yourself how hard it is for you to sit with your own anger.
Nicole Roybal: Hard. I don't know why I don't want to express to someone. I'm angry that I feel like it's going to make them angry and then they're just going to project back anger and then it's going to turn into an argument. So it's like saying upset is better for
Nicole Roybal: Like okay she's not angry, she's upset.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, you, you. There's a lot more wiggle room with this. Once you really get it.
Nicole Roybal: Then
Gwenevere Abriel: The more nuanced and you can say irritated.
Nicole Roybal: Annoying good on
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, those are those are little cousins of angry. I'm kind of a pest.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, you can put your own flair to it, but you don't get to wiggle around with that until you figure out this structure. If you start, you hear the note as soon as you say, like, or that and I knew it before you even started doing it because it's
Gwenevere Abriel: That. Amen. She's not on Nicole. I knew you were going to do it because everybody does it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Because
Nicole Roybal: I went to Valley High School over here in New Mexico and Albuquerque, and after, after I went there, I noticed, I would say, like, like after like every like word like like like
Nicole Roybal: It was so annoying. I'm like, oh my god. So now I still have that and it a lot.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's
Gwenevere Abriel: Cool to be conscious when we're unconscious. I want you to think about how powerful words are now take a step back, you may know why you caught that that habit in that school
Gwenevere Abriel: But our words are the best symbolic representation of what is going on in our head and our hearts and our soul psychology. That's all we've got.
Nicole Roybal: Maybe, yeah.
Maybe a hug.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe cleaning up after someone. Yeah, there are some gestures that the best we can do is through a story you know through poetry through through talking. Think about how good it feels when someone really understands you
Gwenevere Abriel: Right feels amazing. You feel loved. Right.
Nicole Roybal: Yeah definitely goes the other way too. So if you take the time and be conscious be awake be on purpose. Another person might feel respected and cared for.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you might end up being able to communicate a level of intimacy that you haven't been able to in the past.
Gwenevere Abriel: You might develop different kinds of friendships, people might get to know you really know you and then that I feel like a phony thing might start to dissolve because you know what, you're not showing up with a story approximating how you feel. No, no, saying it. I feel
Gwenevere Abriel: Unimportant and you don't show up.
Gwenevere Abriel: To our lunch. I feel
Nicole Roybal: Like the main just like emotion sad, angry or happy, whatever. There's so many other words
Gwenevere Abriel: There are. But remember, you're just learning right now. So there was no time for the for the finance. Now there is once you really get this and immediately practice it.
Gwenevere Abriel: With with family and you can say it in positive ways to I feel happy. You guys are all sitting around and we're making food together. You just did it. You did it in a positive way.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, instead of what most people do is you should hang out with the house more
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, because
Nicole Roybal: Why, why are you telling me that
Gwenevere Abriel: Also what I'm doing. We just don't own our own feelings. Most people grow up in homes where they don't. So you're not alone. That's like the norm, unfortunately.
Gwenevere Abriel: Amen. But, but then children don't get to, to find out that they have a right to them.
Gwenevere Abriel: They get to understand how to handle them, they don't get modeling from their family about what's a healthy way to process feelings.
Gwenevere Abriel: So there's there's some downside to family systems that don't own their own feelings. Okay, so let's take a couple. We gotta go. But let's do one with with let's do a couple of Daniel. Daniel
Nicole Roybal: I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: gonna insult check
Gwenevere Abriel: And you
Gwenevere Abriel: Make a decision.
Gwenevere Abriel: That I don't make you feel anything that's the new filter. Right. It's like, Hmm, I feel it nonetheless you do feel it, you feel hurt probably insulted minimized unimportant all those yucky ones.
Gwenevere Abriel: But the truth of the matter is that you're making meeting about what I'm saying and doing you are responsible for that because the next person may make a different meaning out of it. I hear it from Daniel and I'll go
Nicole Roybal: Below the term you use
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to go away. You know, because I'm not offended. I can see what he's doing. I like okay he's doing what he always did, and he's testing to see if I'm going to get as upset or maybe this is how he fills up so it pisses me off and
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, so I can see it all play out. Like, oh boy. There it goes. Again, I'm kind of hungry. I'll see in the kitchen. And it's not a thing for me but you
Gwenevere Abriel: What he says because you still put a lot of weight into what other people say. And think about you. You've given been given away your power for a long time.
Gwenevere Abriel: So here we go. You're going to say I feel
Slow way down. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So if I'm Daniel I say all that's all fine and good, you know, I'm Nicole. But I don't think it was gonna last very long. In fact, um, how about we have a little toast will have a little champagne. I mean it is you know Valentine's Day. Don't be a bitch. Come on.
Nicole Roybal: You. There's nothing like that. But
Nicole Roybal: I feel pressured when you're trying to push off a little my face because you know how good. I've been doing and why would you try to take that away.
Gwenevere Abriel: So the last one. The. Why would you try is
Gwenevere Abriel: A baby. That's a, it's a big that was a big push you did great on the first part.
Nicole Roybal: Yeah I know, I'll say yes my girls are they good I shouldn't say
Gwenevere Abriel: Give me, give me something he would say, it'll hit home better if you give me my script.
Nicole Roybal: I'm he'd say something like, I'm
Nicole Roybal: Sad. So he was saying last night is saying that
Nicole Roybal: No matter what because the okay so he was trying to say because of how I've had my withdrawals in the past and how intense, they are
Nicole Roybal: That there's no way I was just drinking alcohol that I'll have to have been on drugs as well. And so he thought, I've been on time and I'm like you, dude, I've been clean off drugs and alcohol and now I'm coming on board.
Nicole Roybal: I got it.
Nicole Roybal: You got it though. Sorry.
Nicole Roybal: Anyway, when he says something like that. I guess I could say I feel
Gwenevere Abriel: No, no, no. You got to go through it. Let me say it to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Harder.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, Nicole. I think you should really own the fact that I know you're telling everybody that you you were actually, those were withdrawals, but I know you were really drinking and or at least using some other drugs. I, I would appreciate if you would just own it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Take a deep breath. Remember the box breathing. I told you you breathe into the belly, you can take as long as you want. And there's no doctrine on this planet that we have to respond to someone within 10 seconds we can take our sweet time
Gwenevere Abriel: You get in touch with how you are feeling and it's okay to have that feeling. And if he's worth your time of day. Can you tell them how you feel and why, very simply, what
Nicole Roybal: I feel very angry.
Gwenevere Abriel: Wait what, wait what
Nicole Roybal: I feel very angry. Oh.
Nicole Roybal: I guess I added to bury my buddy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, keep going. I didn't mean interrupt.
Nicole Roybal: Okay, I feel very angry when you say stuff like that because I know how hard I worked for my sobriety and
Nicole Roybal: No links. Oh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so a little, a little extra one at the end.
Nicole Roybal: Yeah, I always tend to do that was extra
Gwenevere Abriel: It One More in this time go with
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel sad, try it out and see what happens when you do that one.
Nicole Roybal: Everyone, everyone is angry every single one of them has been angry, I feel very sad when you
Gwenevere Abriel: Drop the very
Nicole Roybal: Oh, am I saying, I know I feel sad.
Nicole Roybal: When you tell me when you say stuff like that because
Nicole Roybal: I know how hard I work because basically the same thing is angry. I know that.
Nicole Roybal: You're not right and I'm serious. I affiliates that you think I am on drugs or drinking anything worse because I would never do that. I'm clean because of him or not because of him, but he's willing to help me through all of it. I'm not just gonna
Nicole Roybal: With the drug part not the alcohol. Right.
So,
Gwenevere Abriel: That was closer to actually how you felt typically anger is a secondary emotion, it's protecting that other one. And so, notice how it felt a little bit more true you were feeling it a little bit more
Nicole Roybal: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so what you end what you can end up saying over you, Sam back I feel sort of initially angry but underneath them sad.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because I value what you think of me. And one of the reasons that motivated me was for you and then you don't see
Gwenevere Abriel: I progress.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you shush, but you're not giving people a chance to care. You don't shush.
Gwenevere Abriel: Give a
Nicole Roybal: real problem for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: They we've got to have a chance to hear you. Human beings can't hold much in our little working brain right at the same time, we can have this amazing storage capacity. And I can remember some things from being little
Gwenevere Abriel: Haven't even thought about in a while, right, but I can pull it up for my my hippocampus but right here, as I'm listening to you. I can't remember much so you you're wasting all those words, you might as well just say one sentence. That's the one. I'll actually here.
Gwenevere Abriel: And give me a chance to show you I care about you. Don't you want to know if I care if you're hurting and sad.
Nicole Roybal: When I'm a lot of sense. Lot of sense because it's like they'll have their first or emotion or thought and then by the time I'm done talking with my frickin Long's huge sentence.
Nicole Roybal: Then they go to anger or to another thought. And they totally forgot that. First off, but they're good and see member
Gwenevere Abriel: Of course it makes sense. Remember I was telling you earlier, you could drop the because
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's why if you go about your because I could skip over hearing the sad and just focus on the content of the because and never show you I heard you.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you're doing yourself a disservice. Especially since you and Daniel don't have these new skills. He doesn't know how to mirror which is the listeners skill set. So you're robbing yourself of an opportunity to look in his eyes and see I just told this person I feel sad when you minimize
Gwenevere Abriel: The progress. I've made.
Nicole Roybal: And you sure, is it. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you get to
Gwenevere Abriel: Because part of this process, whether this turns into some relationship down the line or dissolves is seeing reality for what it is.
Gwenevere Abriel: Find out if you really cares and I know it's scary to do that. But this is a way to find out. You
Gwenevere Abriel: Open your heart up, we said, what's the truth for you know we we we make it vulnerable to the actions of others. That's what we do when we're in an intimate relationship we trust them. We say, here's my little underbelly my sad. How are you going to treat my sad.
Gwenevere Abriel: You get to find out if this man is trustworthy with your tender feelings we couldn't do that before and I know it's scary because what if he's a turkey with them. Well, at least want to be nice to know now, he's a turkey.
Nicole Roybal: Yeah, Mr showing only skills. When I first met him.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what the reason why I focused on this today was to say it doesn't mean that it's only an FAQ and out the door, you go, there's other ways to interact. Give it a try. Don't maybe you'll forget, but it's
Nicole Roybal: Not going to forget. This is a big thing. And I really am trying to think of anything I do to make sure that we don't fight that we just get a long fight.
Gwenevere Abriel: And a go to for you could be, oh, Daniel. I'm feeling defensive. I don't want to fight. I'm feeling defensive
Nicole Roybal: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's a really
Gwenevere Abriel: Because after that if it continues. Then we get into anger and I can't you know righteousness. I thought that that though, but you're sharing your truth in the moment.
Let me see. I think we
Nicole Roybal: So we have Wednesday at 12pm next week for our one on one or next one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I put
Two. What did you
Gwenevere Abriel: Say yes.
Nicole Roybal: Yes. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Primary care physician.
Gwenevere Abriel: And go commit to the volunteering your day is about to get really structured because that's going to set everything you need to do is going to wrap around
Gwenevere Abriel: Am I ready. Am I showered in my business. I'm what am I going, where am I, where am I going to go. Am I gonna have my goodness it's all going to be around that volunteering. So go find out more and see if you can see yourself commit to it.
Nicole Roybal: Okay, I will. I've been in before so I know what to expect. I just different people now so I'm kind of scared.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, you'll be fine.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is for your recovery. This is for you. cares. It's just volunteering, no worries.
Gwenevere Abriel: But do tell me you can text me if it gets really scary. Okay, let me know. Okay.
Nicole Roybal: I just realized tomorrow's Valentine's Day. I don't think I'm going to go to a meetings. I'll be at Daniel's. Would it be okay if I go to the NA meeting tonight instead
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, absolutely.
Nicole Roybal: Okay. All right.
Bye bye. Have a good